EIB quick-start guide update (#134)
suse-edge/suse-edge.github.io: asciidoc/quickstart/eib.adoc

> = Edge Image Builder Quick-Start Guide

Reviewer: This needs to stay what it was since it's the title that goes in the sidebar (and is used for internal anchors). This doc is more about "how do I set up a standalone cluster" than "how do I use EIB"

:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

Edge Image Builder (EIB) is a tool that streamlines the process of generating pre-configured, ready-to-deploy (RTD) disk images for bootstrapping machines, even in air-gapped scenarios.

For more information, read the  link:../components/edge-image-builder.adoc[Edge Image Builder Introduction]

== Prerequisites

* x86_64 machine to run EIB

> * Podman or alternative container runtime

Reviewer: Have we tested with Docker?

* Local copy of `SLE-Micro.x86_64-5.5.0-Default-SelfInstall-GM2.install.iso` found https://www.suse.com/download/sle-micro/[here]

[NOTE]
====
If you are running Rancher Desktop, you need to switch to the https://docs.rancherdesktop.io/ui/preferences/container-engine/general[`dockerd (moby)` container runtime]
====

=== Getting the EIB Image

`podman pull EIB-IMAGE-HERE`

=== Creating the image configuration directory

EIB requires mounting a directory from the host.

This directory must follow a specific structure, the following instructions outline a non-comprehensive example:

For simplicity, setting the variable `$EIB` to the full path of where you want the configuration directory is recommended, e.g. `EIB=/home/user/eib/config`.

> `mkdir -p $EIB/base-images`

Reviewer: For these commands, let's use the triple backtick form to stay consistent across documents (I need to change a few of mine as well)

`mkdir $EIB/network`

`cp SLE-Micro.x86_64-5.5.0-Default-SelfInstall-GM2.install.iso $EIB/base-images/slemicro.iso`

The generated directory should look like:

[,console]
----
├── base-images/
│   └ slemicro.iso

> ├── network/

Reviewer 2: This should also be removed.

└──
----

=== Building the image definition file

The definition file declaratively defines the desired configuration of the RTD image.

The base contents of the file are:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: 1.0
image:
  imageType: iso
  arch: x86_64
  baseImage: slemicro.iso
  outputImageName: eib-image.iso
----

This definition outlines that we are generating an image for an `x86_64` system and that the base image to be modified is an `ISO` image named `slemicro.iso` that is expected to be found at `$EIB/base-images/slemicro.iso`. It also outlines that after EIB is done modifying the image, the RTD image will be named `eib-image.iso`.

> We will save this file as `eib-iso-definition.yaml`

Reviewer 2: Can we use `cat << EOF >>...` instead to create the file directly?

Now our directory structure should look like:
[,console]
----
├── eib-iso-definition.yaml
├── base-images/
│   └ slemicro.iso

> ├── network/

Reviewer 2: Same as above.

└──
----

> ==== Configuring OS Users

Reviewer 2: The rest of the sections should also follow this style if this is the preference e.g. `Packages -> Configuring packages`.

> EIB allows us to pre-configure users with login information such as passwords or SSH keys. (Doing this for root is not typically recommended but we will use root for this guide).

Reviewer: I know this is from my copy but we could probably remove "typically" 😆 I doubt ssh to root in prod is ever recommended...

[,yaml]
----
  packages:
    packageList:
      - yq
    additionalRepos:
      - url: https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/openSUSE:Factory/standard
----

The resulting definition file looks like:

[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: 1.0
image:
  imageType: iso
  arch: x86_64
  baseImage: slemicro.iso
  outputImageName: eib-image.iso
operatingSystem:
  users:
    - username: root
      encryptedPassword: $6$UrXB1sAGs46DOiSq$HSwi9GFJLCorm0J53nF2Sq8YEoyINhHcObHzX2R8h13mswUIsMwzx4eUzn/rRx0QPV4JIb0eWCoNrxGiKH4R31
  packages:
    packageList:
      - yq
    additionalRepos:
      - url: https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/openSUSE:Factory/standard
----

Given this, the EIB package resolver will automatically search for and download the required RPMs for the package as well as all of the necessary dependencies. This package will then be pre-installed to the RTD image with no network connection necessary.

[NOTE]
====
More operating system settings can be found https://github.com/suse-edge/edge-image-builder/blob/main/docs/building-images.md#operating-system[here] in the Edge Image Builder documentation.
====

> ==== Kubernetes and Kubernetes workload Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Configuring Kubernetes cluster and user workloads
```

Another feature of EIB is the simplified air-gapped deployment of a Kubernetes cluster with Helm charts and manifests.

> The following addition to the definition file:

Reviewer 2: Splitting the sentence around a code block is hard to read. Could we update it?

[,yaml]
----
kubernetes:
  version: v1.28.7+rke2r1
  manifests:
    urls:
      - https://k8s.io/examples/application/nginx-app.yaml
  helm:
    charts:
      - name: kubevirt
        version: 0.2.2
        repositoryName: suse-edge
    repositories:
      - name: suse-edge
        url: https://suse-edge.github.io/charts
----

> defines that RKE2 Kubernetes version `v1.28.7+rke2r1`, the `kubevirt` Helm chart version `0.2.2` found in the `https://suse-edge.github.io/charts` repository, and the manifest found at `https://k8s.io/examples/application/nginx-app.yaml` should be automatically deployed on the generated RTD image.

Reviewer 2: Splitting this up would make more sense. One sentence describing that a single node RKE2 cluster with the specific definition will be created, one for how helm charts are created, etc.

    enabled: false
----

The resulting file structure should look like:
[,console]
----
├── eib-iso-definition.yaml
├── base-images/
│   └ slemicro.iso
├── network/
│   └ host1.local.yaml

> └──

Reviewer: Should this elbow move up?

----

> This will be turned into the necessary https://github.com/nmstate/nmstate[nmstate] configuration files when the image is built, which configures the RTD image's networking according to that file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This will be turned into the necessary https://github.com/nmstate/nmstate[nmstate] configuration files when the image is built. These files will be automatically applied during the provisioning of the RTD image resulting in a complete network configuration.
```

=== Building the image

To build the image, we can run:

[,bash]
----
podman run --rm -it --privileged -v $EIB:/eib \

> eib:demo \

Reviewer: This needs to be the image from OBS/IBS

Systemd ...................... [SKIPPED]
Elemental .................... [SKIPPED]
Suma ......................... [SKIPPED]
Downloading file: dl-manifest-1.yaml 100% | (498/498 B, 4.2 MB/s)        
Embedded Artifact Registry ... [SUCCESS]
Keymap ....................... [SUCCESS]
Configuring Kubernetes component...
The Kubernetes CNI is not explicitly set, defaulting to 'cilium'.
Downloading file: rke2-images-core.linux-amd64.tar.zst 100% | (780/780 MB, 116 MB/s)        
Downloading file: rke2-images-cilium.linux-amd64.tar.zst 100% | (367/367 MB, 32 MB/s)         
Downloading file: rke2.linux-amd64.tar.gz 100% | (34/34 MB, 102 MB/s)        
Downloading file: sha256sum-amd64.txt 100% | (3.9/3.9 kB, 32 MB/s)        
Downloading file: dl-manifest-1.yaml 100% | (498/498 B, 6.8 MB/s)        
Kubernetes ................... [SUCCESS]
Certificates ................. [SKIPPED]
Building ISO image...
Kernel Params ................ [SKIPPED]
Image build complete.
----

The generated RTD `ISO` image will be created at `$EIB/eib-image.iso`:

[,console]
----
├── eib-iso-definition.yaml
├── eib-image.iso
├── _build
│    └ build-XYZ
├── base-images/
│    └ slemicro.iso
├── network/

> └──

Reviewer: Same with this elbow

│   │   ├── network
│   │   │   ├── host1.local
│   │   │   │   └── eth0.nmconnection
│   │   │   └── host_config.yaml
│   │   ├── nmc
│   │   ├── registries.yaml
│   │   ├── registry
│   │   │   └── embedded-registry.tar.zst
│   │   ├── rke2_installer.sh
│   │   ├── rpm-repo
│   │   │   ├── addrepo0
│   │   │   │   └── x86_64
│   │   │   │       ├── ...
│   │   │   ├── repodata
│   │   │   │   ├── ...
│   │   │   └── zypper-success
│   │   ├── script
│   │   └── server.yaml
│   ├── createrepo.log
│   ├── eib-build.log
│   ├── embedded-registry.log
│   ├── hauler-manifest.yaml
│   ├── helm
│   │   └── kubevirt-0.2.2.tgz
│   ├── helm-pull.log
│   ├── helm-repo-add.log
│   ├── helm-template.log
│   ├── iso-build.log
│   ├── iso-build.sh
│   ├── iso-extract
│   │   ├── ...
│   ├── iso-extract.log
│   ├── iso-extract.sh
│   ├── modify-raw-image.sh
│   ├── network-config.log
│   ├── podman-image-build.log
│   ├── podman-system-service.log
│   ├── prepare-resolver-base-tarball-image.log
│   ├── prepare-resolver-base-tarball-image.sh
│   ├── raw-build.log
│   ├── raw-extract
│   │   ├── ...
│   └── resolver-image-build
│       ├──...
└── cache
    ├── ...
----

> In the case of the build failing, `eib-build.log` is the first log that will contain information. From there, it will direct you to the component that failed for debugging.

Reviewer 2: Can we include a link to the debugging guide?
